Added change log for Dropping native windows support (#3197)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/analytics/apama-in-c8y-25-56-0-Remove-windows-support.md

---

> date: 2025-04-08

Reviewer: you should not set a date, the date will be updated automatically based on when the corresponding version is deployed on eu-latest

Author: https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3197/commits/748dfcb0fe6f43e0e68f1f7c228ff6c14bd11b26

> title: Dropping native Windows support for Apama Analytics Builder Block SDJ and Apama EPL Apps Tools

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Dropping native Windows support for Apama Analytics Builder Block SDK and Apama EPL Apps Tools
```

> title: Dropping native Windows support for Apama Analytics Builder Block SDK and Apama EPL Apps Tools

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Changes to the development workflow on Windows for Apama Analytics Builder Block SDK and Apama EPL Apps Tools
```
The word "dropping" is a bit too negative, so let's use the above

Author: [10d85a3](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3197/commits/10d85a357f44727a26c20b654b0f047bd96f5eab)

> title: Dropping native windows support for the apama-analytics-builder-block-sdk and apama-eplapps-tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Dropping native Windows support for Apama Analytics Builder Block SDJ and Apama EPL Apps Tools
```

change_type:
  - value: change-inv-3bw8e
    label: Announcement
product_area: Analytics
component:
  - value: component-M5-cepIIS
    label: Streaming Analytics
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-KXXmo2SUR
    label: apama-in-c8y

> version: 26.79.0

Reviewer: version number should be atleast >= the first version of PAQ with debian changes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
version: 26.97.0
```

Even though not promoted yet, the 97 tag for https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/apama-in-c8y/commit/05c1a9c4b79cce5470e2b284424d1d77bbd84766 can be used here

---

> The [apama-analytics-builder-block-sdk](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/apama-analytics-builder-block-sdk) and [apama-eplapps-tools](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/apama-eplapps-tools) are no longer supported natively on Windows environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Apama Analytics Builder Block SDK](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/apama-analytics-builder-block-sdk) and [Apama EPL Apps Tools](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/apama-eplapps-tools) are no longer supported natively on Windows environments.
```

Reviewer 2: Better go with the clear names than with the url.

Windows users have two options to continue using these tools:

>   - **Use a WSL-based Environment**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **Use a WSL-based environment**:
```

>       Set up *WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux)* with a Debian distribution using [Apama Debian Package](https://download.cumulocity.com/Apama/Debian) of 26.x+. This provides a compatible and supported environment for using both the Block SDK and EPL Apps Tools. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Set up WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux) with a Debian distribution using [Apama Debian Package](https://download.cumulocity.com/Apama/Debian) of 26.x+. This provides a compatible and supported environment for using both the Analytics Builder Block SDK and EPL Apps Tools. 
```

  - **Use the rel/y2025 branch with Apama 10.15**:

>       Alternatively, use the rel/y2025 branch of the respective repositories along with Apama 10.15 for continued support on Windows.

Reviewer 3: I don't think we want to encourage using PAM 10.15 as an equally valid long-term option - especially using the word "support" implies it'll keep working and at some point it won't. I don't mind having it as an aside for a short-term solution, e.g. "In the short-term it is possible to continue using Apama 10.15 and the `rel/y2025` branch of the respective repositories, however customers are encouraged to transition to the new approach when possible. "

Author: [10d85a3](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3197/commits/10d85a357f44727a26c20b654b0f047bd96f5eab)
